examples/lmcache/README.md, before:

# LMCache Examples

This folder demonstrates how to use LMCache for disaggregated prefilling, CPU offloading and KV cache sharing.

## 1. Disaggregated Prefill in vLLM v1

This example demonstrates how to run LMCache with disaggregated prefill using NIXL on a single node.

### Prerequisites

- Install [LMCache](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/lmcache)
- Install [NIXL](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/nixl)
- At least 2 GPUs
- Valid Hugging Face token (HF_TOKEN) for Llama 3.1 8B Instruct.

### Usage

Run
`cd disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1`
to get into `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1` folder, and then run

```bash
bash disagg_example_nixl.sh
```

to run disaggregated prefill and benchmark the performance.

### Components

#### Server Scripts
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_vllm_launcher.sh` - Launches individual vLLM servers for prefill/decode, and also launches the proxy server.
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_proxy_server.py` - FastAPI proxy server that coordinates between prefiller and decoder
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_example_nixl.sh` - Main script to run the example

#### Configuration
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/configs/lmcache-prefiller-config.yaml` - Configuration for prefiller server
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/configs/lmcache-decoder-config.yaml` - Configuration for decoder server

#### Log Files
The main script generates several log files:
- `prefiller.log` - Logs from the prefill server
- `decoder.log` - Logs from the decode server
- `proxy.log` - Logs from the proxy server

## 2. CPU Offload Examples

- `cpu_offload_lmcache_v0.py` - CPU offloading implementation for vLLM v0
- `cpu_offload_lmcache_v1.py` - CPU offloading implementation for vLLM v1

## 3. KV Cache Sharing

The `kv_cache_sharing_lmcache_v1.py` example demonstrates how to share KV caches between vLLM v1 instances.

## 4. Disaggregated Prefill in vLLM v0

The `disaggregated_prefill_lmcache_v0.py` provides an example of how to run disaggregated prefill in vLLM v0.

Commit message:

[Doc] Fix wrong github link in LMCache examples (#17274)
Signed-off-by: KuntaiDu <kuntai@uchicago.edu>
Signed-off-by: Nikhil Suryawanshi <suryawanshin74@gmail.com>

examples/lmcache/README.md, after:

# LMCache Examples

This folder demonstrates how to use LMCache for disaggregated prefilling, CPU offloading and KV cache sharing.

## 1. Disaggregated Prefill in vLLM v1

This example demonstrates how to run LMCache with disaggregated prefill using NIXL on a single node.

### Prerequisites

- Install [LMCache](https://github.com/LMCache/LMCache). You can simply run `pip install lmcache`.
- Install [NIXL](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/nixl).
- At least 2 GPUs
- Valid Hugging Face token (HF_TOKEN) for Llama 3.1 8B Instruct.

### Usage

Run
`cd disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1`
to get into `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1` folder, and then run

```bash
bash disagg_example_nixl.sh
```

to run disaggregated prefill and benchmark the performance.

### Components

#### Server Scripts
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_vllm_launcher.sh` - Launches individual vLLM servers for prefill/decode, and also launches the proxy server.
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_proxy_server.py` - FastAPI proxy server that coordinates between prefiller and decoder
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/disagg_example_nixl.sh` - Main script to run the example

#### Configuration
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/configs/lmcache-prefiller-config.yaml` - Configuration for prefiller server
- `disagg_prefill_lmcache_v1/configs/lmcache-decoder-config.yaml` - Configuration for decoder server

#### Log Files
The main script generates several log files:
- `prefiller.log` - Logs from the prefill server
- `decoder.log` - Logs from the decode server
- `proxy.log` - Logs from the proxy server

## 2. CPU Offload Examples

- `cpu_offload_lmcache_v0.py` - CPU offloading implementation for vLLM v0
- `cpu_offload_lmcache_v1.py` - CPU offloading implementation for vLLM v1

## 3. KV Cache Sharing

The `kv_cache_sharing_lmcache_v1.py` example demonstrates how to share KV caches between vLLM v1 instances.

## 4. Disaggregated Prefill in vLLM v0

The `disaggregated_prefill_lmcache_v0.py` provides an example of how to run disaggregated prefill in vLLM v0.
