tt_metal/README.md, before:


## vLLM and tt-metal Branches
For the latest versions of vLLM and tt-metal, git-checkout the following branches in each repo separately:
- vLLM branch: [dev](https://github.com/tenstorrent/vllm/tree/dev) (do not commit to this branch)
- tt-metal branch: [main](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal)

>[!NOTE]
> If testing a specific model, please refer to the [TT-Metal LLMs table](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal?tab=readme-ov-file#llms) for the appropriate commits to use for tt-metal and vLLM.

## System Requirements
vLLM requires Python 3.9+ (Python 3.10.12 is the default `python3` on Ubuntu 22.04).

## Environment Creation

**To create the vLLM+tt-metal environment (first time):**
1. Install and build tt-metal following the instructions in [INSTALLING.md](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/blob/main/INSTALLING.md). Ensure that the necessary environment variables for running tt-metal tests were set.
2. From the main vLLM directory, run:

    ```sh
    export vllm_dir=$(pwd)
    source $vllm_dir/tt_metal/setup-metal.sh
    ```
  
3. (Optional step when installing tt-metal from source) In step 2, `PYTHON_ENV_DIR` is set to `${TT_METAL_HOME}/build/python_env_vllm`. Create the tt-metal virtual environment following the instructions in [INSTALLING.md#option-1-from-source](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/blob/main/INSTALLING.md#option-1-from-source). Then, enter that virtual environment with `source $PYTHON_ENV_DIR/bin/activate`.
4. Install vLLM:

    ```sh
    pip3 install --upgrade pip
    cd $vllm_dir && pip install -e . --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
    ```

**To activate the vLLM+tt-metal environment (after the first time):**
1. Ensure `$vllm_dir` contains the path to vLLM and run:

    ```sh
    source $vllm_dir/tt_metal/setup-metal.sh && source $PYTHON_ENV_DIR/bin/activate
    ```

## Accessing the Meta-Llama Hugging Face Models

To run Meta-Llama-3.1/3.2, it is required to have access to the model on Hugging Face. To gain access:
1. Request access on Hugging Face:
   - Llama-3.1: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B)
   - Llama-3.2: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B)
   - Llama-3.2-Vision: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct)
2. Once you have received access, create and copy your access token from the settings tab on Hugging Face.
3. Run this code in python and paste your access token:
  
    ```python
    from huggingface_hub import login
    login()
    ```

## Preparing the tt-metal models

1. Ensure that `$PYTHONPATH` contains the path to tt-metal (should already have been done when installing tt-metal)
2. For the desired model, follow the setup instructions (if any) for the corresponding tt-metal demo. E.g. For Llama-3.1/3.2 and Qwen-2.5, follow the [demo instructions](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers) for preparing the weights and environment variables, and install any extra requirements (e.g. `pip install -r models/tt_transformers/requirements.txt`).

## Running the offline inference example

### Llama-3.1/3.2 (1B, 3B, 8B, 70B) and Qwen-2.5 (7B, 72B) Text Models

To generate tokens (Llama70B on QuietBox) for sample prompts (with batch size 32):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/offline_inference_tt.py
```

To measure performance (Llama70B on QuietBox) for a single batch of 32 prompts (with the default prompt length of 128 tokens):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --measure_perf
```

> **⚠️ Enabling V1 Backend**: V1 support has been added for text-only models. This can be enabled by setting `VLLM_USE_V1=1` and `--num_scheduler_steps 1`, though it may still have limitations compared to the default V0 backend. To disable multiprocessing in V1 (to step through code or make scheduling deterministic), set `VLLM_ENABLE_V1_MULTIPROCESSING=0` (note: not compatible with DP models). To run a model with DP attention, set the DP factor with `--data_parallel_size`, set the max batch size as the max batch per DP group, and set `--async_engine` (only for offline script) for proper load balancing.

**Note 1**: Custom TT options can be set using `--override_tt_config` with a json string, e.g. `--override_tt_config '{"sample_on_device_mode": "all"}'`, however these shouldn't be used unless the model supports them (most currently do not). Supported parameters are:
- `sample_on_device_mode`: ["all", "decode_only"]
- `trace_mode`: [true, false]
- `trace_region_size`: [default: 25000000]
- `worker_l1_size`
- `l1_small_size`
- `fabric_config`: ["DISABLED", "FABRIC_1D", "FABRIC_2D", "CUSTOM"]
- `dispatch_core_axis`: ["row", "col"]
- `data_parallel`: [default: 1]
- `always_compat_sampling`: [true, false], default: false (If true, use vLLM's full LogitProcessor+Sampler pipeline instead of custom sampling even when not required by the batch)
- `optimizations`: ["accuracy", "performance"], default: None

**Note 2 (Llama70B)**: To run Llama70B on Galaxy, set `MESH_DEVICE=TG`.

**Note 3 (Llama70B)**: By default, this will run the newer tt-metal implementation of Llama70B from the [tt_transformers demo](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers). To run other implementations use the `TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER` environment variable:
- `"llama3_70b_galaxy"` for the Llama TG implementation
- `"llama2_70b"` for the old Llama implementation

**Note 4 (Other Models)**: By default, the inference example will run with Llama-3.1-70B. To run with other Llama models, or Qwen-2.5, ensure that the apprioriate environment variables are set as per the [demo instructions](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers), then set `MESH_DEVICE=<device>` (valid options for `<device>` are `N150`, `N300`, `T3K`, or `TG`) and one of the following:
- Llama-3.1-8B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B"` (Note that on N150, `--max_model_len 65536` must be set for this model, see the [tt_transformers demo](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers) for details about the max context length)
- Llama-3.2-1B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B"`
- Llama-3.2-3B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B"`
- Qwen-2.5-7B: `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B"` (currently only supported on N300)
- Qwen-2.5-72B: `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B"` (currently only supported on T3K)
- DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B: `--model "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B"`

The command to run Llama70B on Galaxy is:

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=TG LLAMA_DIR=<path to weights> TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER="llama3_70b_galaxy" python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" --override_tt_config '{"dispatch_core_axis": "col", "sample_on_device_mode": "all", "fabric_config": "FABRIC_1D", "worker_l1_size": 1344544, "trace_region_size": 184915840}'
```

### Llama-3.2 (11B and 90B) and Qwen-2.5-VL (32B and 72B) Vision models

To generate tokens (Llama-3.2-11B on N300) for sample prompts:

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=N300 python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct" --multi_modal --max_seqs_in_batch 16 --num_repeat_prompts 8
```

To measure performance (Llama-3.2-11B on N300) for a single batch (with the default prompt length of 128 tokens):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=N300 python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct" --measure_perf --multi_modal --max_seqs_in_batch 16
```

> **Notes:**
> - To run the 11B Llama-3.2 model on QuietBox, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`.
> - To run the 90B Llama-3.2 model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct"` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 4`.
> - To run the 32B Qwen-2.5-VL model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-32B"` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`.
> - To run the 72B Qwen-2.5-VL model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-72B"`, `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`, `--max_model_len 2048`, and `--override_tt_config '{"trace_region_size": 28467200}'`. Note that this model currently is limited to 2048 tokens per user with batch size 32 to avoid OOM error on T3K.
> - To run the 27B gemma-3 model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K --model "google/gemma-3-27b-it" --max_seqs_in_batch 32 --override_tt_config '{"l1_small_size": 768, "fabric_config": "FABRIC_1D"} --multi_modal --multi_image --mm_processor_kwargs '{"use_fast": true, "do_convert_rgb": true}'`.

## Running the server example

To start up the server:

```sh
VLLM_RPC_TIMEOUT=100000 MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/server_example_tt.py
```

> **Notes:**
> - By default, the server will run with Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct. To run with other models, set `MESH_DEVICE` and `--model` as described in [Running the offline inference example](#running-the-offline-inference-example).
> - Custom TT options can be set using `--override_tt_config` as described in [Running the offline inference example](#running-the-offline-inference-example).

To send a request to the server:

```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct", "prompt": "San Francisco is a", "max_tokens": 32, "temperature": 1, "top_p": 0.9, "top_k": 10 }'
```

### Compatibility sampling mode, guided decoding, structured outputs

Sampling parameters beyond `temperature`, `top_k`, `top_p` require the compatibility sampling mode which is only available with `sample_on_device_mode=None`.
To use these, do not pass `--override_tt_config '{"sample_on_device_mode": "all"}'` even when running with `TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER="llama3_70b_galaxy"`.

Some parameters, such as guided_decoding / strucured outputs require additionally setting `num_scheduler_steps=1`.

Be aware that both of these settings will incur performance penalties.

The compatibility sampling pathway is selected per batch when any request in the batch requires it. It can also be force-enabled for testing purposes with `--override_tt_config '{"always_compat_sampling": true}'`

### Llama-3.2 (11B and 90B) and Qwen-2.5-VL (32B and 72B) Vision models

First, start the server following the instructions above with the correct model through `--model`.

Second, generate a prompt json, e.g.,

```python
import base64
import json

# Function to encode the image
def encode_image(image_path):
    with open(image_path, "rb") as image_file:
        return base64.b64encode(image_file.read()).decode("utf-8")

# Path to your image
image_path = "pasta.jpeg"

# Getting the base64 string
base64_image = encode_image(image_path)

payload = {
    "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct",
    "messages": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": [
                {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "What is for dinner?"
                },
                {
                    "type": "image_url",
                    "image_url": {
                        "url": f"data:image/jpeg;base64,{base64_image}"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ],
    "max_tokens": 128,
    "temperature": 1,
    "top_p": 0.9,
    "top_k": 10
}

# Save to a JSON file
with open("server-instruct-mm-prompt.json", "w") as json_file:
    json.dump(payload, json_file, indent=4)
```

> **Notes:**
> - Qwen-2.5-VL models can also work with a real url like `"https://qianwen-res.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/Qwen-VL/assets/demo.jpeg"` instead of `"data:image/jpeg;base64,{base64_image}"`.

Finally, send a request to the server:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data-binary @server-instruct-mm-prompt.json
```

Commit message:

GPT-oss 20B and 120B integration (#204)
* gpt oss integration

* [gpt-oss] flashinfer mxfp4 (#22339)

Signed-off-by: simon-mo <xmo@berkeley.edu>
Signed-off-by: Yongye Zhu <zyy1102000@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: simon-mo <xmo@berkeley.edu>

* fix worker and update readme

* address comments

* precommit

* address comments

* pre-commit

* Update tt_metal/README.md

Co-authored-by: Salar Hosseini <159165450+skhorasganiTT@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix llama cmd

* fix mesh device tuple parsing

* revert rounding

---------

Signed-off-by: simon-mo <xmo@berkeley.edu>
Signed-off-by: Yongye Zhu <zyy1102000@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Yongye Zhu <zyy1102000@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: simon-mo <xmo@berkeley.edu>
Co-authored-by: Pratikkumar Prajapati <pprajapati@tenstorrent.com>
Co-authored-by: Salar Hosseini <159165450+skhorasganiTT@users.noreply.github.com>

tt_metal/README.md, after:


## vLLM and tt-metal Branches
For the latest versions of vLLM and tt-metal, git-checkout the following branches in each repo separately:
- vLLM branch: [dev](https://github.com/tenstorrent/vllm/tree/dev) (do not commit to this branch)
- tt-metal branch: [main](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal)

>[!NOTE]
> If testing a specific model, please refer to the [TT-Metal LLMs table](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal?tab=readme-ov-file#llms) for the appropriate commits to use for tt-metal and vLLM.

## System Requirements
vLLM requires Python 3.9+ (Python 3.10.12 is the default `python3` on Ubuntu 22.04).

## Environment Creation

**To create the vLLM+tt-metal environment (first time):**
1. Install and build tt-metal following the instructions in [INSTALLING.md](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/blob/main/INSTALLING.md). Ensure that the necessary environment variables for running tt-metal tests were set.
2. From the main vLLM directory, run:

    ```sh
    export vllm_dir=$(pwd)
    source $vllm_dir/tt_metal/setup-metal.sh
    ```
  
3. (Optional step when installing tt-metal from source) In step 2, `PYTHON_ENV_DIR` is set to `${TT_METAL_HOME}/build/python_env_vllm`. Create the tt-metal virtual environment following the instructions in [INSTALLING.md#option-1-from-source](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/blob/main/INSTALLING.md#option-1-from-source). Then, enter that virtual environment with `source $PYTHON_ENV_DIR/bin/activate`.
4. Install vLLM:

    ```sh
    pip3 install --upgrade pip
    cd $vllm_dir && pip install -e . --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
    ```

**To activate the vLLM+tt-metal environment (after the first time):**
1. Ensure `$vllm_dir` contains the path to vLLM and run:

    ```sh
    source $vllm_dir/tt_metal/setup-metal.sh && source $PYTHON_ENV_DIR/bin/activate
    ```

## Accessing the Meta-Llama Hugging Face Models

To run Meta-Llama-3.1/3.2, it is required to have access to the model on Hugging Face. To gain access:
1. Request access on Hugging Face:
   - Llama-3.1: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B)
   - Llama-3.2: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B)
   - Llama-3.2-Vision: [https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct)
2. Once you have received access, create and copy your access token from the settings tab on Hugging Face.
3. Run this code in python and paste your access token:
  
    ```python
    from huggingface_hub import login
    login()
    ```

## Preparing the tt-metal models

1. Ensure that `$PYTHONPATH` contains the path to tt-metal (should already have been done when installing tt-metal)
2. For the desired model, follow the setup instructions (if any) for the corresponding tt-metal demo. E.g. For Llama-3.1/3.2 and Qwen-2.5, follow the [demo instructions](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers) for preparing the weights and environment variables, and install any extra requirements (e.g. `pip install -r models/tt_transformers/requirements.txt`).

## Running the offline inference example

### Llama-3.1/3.2 (1B, 3B, 8B, 70B) and Qwen-2.5 (7B, 72B) Text Models

To generate tokens (Llama70B on QuietBox) for sample prompts (with batch size 32):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/offline_inference_tt.py
```

To measure performance (Llama70B on QuietBox) for a single batch of 32 prompts (with the default prompt length of 128 tokens):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --measure_perf
```

> **⚠️ Enabling V1 Backend**: V1 support has been added for text-only models. This can be enabled by setting `VLLM_USE_V1=1` and `--num_scheduler_steps 1`, though it may still have limitations compared to the default V0 backend. To disable multiprocessing in V1 (to step through code or make scheduling deterministic), set `VLLM_ENABLE_V1_MULTIPROCESSING=0` (note: not compatible with DP models). To run a model with DP attention, set the DP factor with `--data_parallel_size`, set the max batch size as the max batch per DP group, and set `--async_engine` (only for offline script) for proper load balancing.

**Note 1**: Custom TT options can be set using `--override_tt_config` with a json string, e.g. `--override_tt_config '{"sample_on_device_mode": "all"}'`, however these shouldn't be used unless the model supports them (most currently do not). Supported parameters are:
- `sample_on_device_mode`: ["all", "decode_only"]
- `trace_mode`: [true, false]
- `trace_region_size`: [default: 25000000]
- `worker_l1_size`
- `l1_small_size`
- `fabric_config`: ["DISABLED", "FABRIC_1D", "FABRIC_2D", "CUSTOM"]
- `dispatch_core_axis`: ["row", "col"]
- `data_parallel`: [default: 1]
- `always_compat_sampling`: [true, false], default: false (If true, use vLLM's full LogitProcessor+Sampler pipeline instead of custom sampling even when not required by the batch)
- `optimizations`: ["accuracy", "performance"], default: None

**Note 2 (Llama70B)**: To run Llama70B on Galaxy, set `MESH_DEVICE=TG`.

**Note 3 (Llama70B)**: By default, this will run the newer tt-metal implementation of Llama70B from the [tt_transformers demo](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers). To run other implementations use the `TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER` environment variable:
- `"llama3_70b_galaxy"` for the Llama TG implementation
- `"llama2_70b"` for the old Llama implementation

**Note 4 (Other Models)**: By default, the inference example will run with Llama-3.1-70B. To run with other Llama models, or Qwen-2.5, ensure that the apprioriate environment variables are set as per the [demo instructions](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers), then set `MESH_DEVICE=<device>` (valid options for `<device>` are `N150`, `N300`, `T3K`, or `TG`) or the mesh_shape (eg, "(4,8)", "(4,4)") and one of the following:
- Llama-3.1-8B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B"` (Note that on N150, `--max_model_len 65536` must be set for this model, see the [tt_transformers demo](https://github.com/tenstorrent/tt-metal/tree/main/models/tt_transformers) for details about the max context length)
- Llama-3.2-1B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B"`
- Llama-3.2-3B: `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B"`
- Qwen-2.5-7B: `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B"` (currently only supported on N300)
- Qwen-2.5-72B: `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B"` (currently only supported on T3K)
- DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B: `--model "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B"`
- GPT-OSS-20B: --model "openai/gpt-oss-20b"
- GPT-OSS-120B: --model "openai/gpt-oss-120b"

Example commands:
- To run the Llama70B model on Galaxy: `MESH_DEVICE=TG LLAMA_DIR=<path to weights> TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER="llama3_70b_galaxy" python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" --override_tt_config '{"dispatch_core_axis": "col", "sample_on_device_mode": "all", "fabric_config": "FABRIC_1D_RING", "worker_l1_size": 1344544, "trace_region_size": 184915840}'`

- To run the 20B gpt-oss model on Galaxy: `MESH_DEVICE="(4,8)" python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "openai/gpt-oss-20b" --max_seqs_in_batch 1 --override_tt_config '{"fabric_config": "FABRIC_1D_RING"}'`
### Llama-3.2 (11B and 90B) and Qwen-2.5-VL (32B and 72B) Vision models

To generate tokens (Llama-3.2-11B on N300) for sample prompts:

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=N300 python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct" --multi_modal --max_seqs_in_batch 16 --num_repeat_prompts 8
```

To measure performance (Llama-3.2-11B on N300) for a single batch (with the default prompt length of 128 tokens):

```sh
MESH_DEVICE=N300 python examples/offline_inference_tt.py --model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct" --measure_perf --multi_modal --max_seqs_in_batch 16
```

> **Notes:**
> - To run the 11B Llama-3.2 model on QuietBox, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`.
> - To run the 90B Llama-3.2 model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct"` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 4`.
> - To run the 32B Qwen-2.5-VL model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-32B"` and `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`.
> - To run the 72B Qwen-2.5-VL model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K`, `--model "Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-72B"`, `--max_seqs_in_batch 32`, `--max_model_len 2048`, and `--override_tt_config '{"trace_region_size": 28467200}'`. Note that this model currently is limited to 2048 tokens per user with batch size 32 to avoid OOM error on T3K.
> - To run the 27B gemma-3 model, set `MESH_DEVICE=T3K --model "google/gemma-3-27b-it" --max_seqs_in_batch 32 --override_tt_config '{"l1_small_size": 768, "fabric_config": "FABRIC_1D"} --multi_modal --multi_image --mm_processor_kwargs '{"use_fast": true, "do_convert_rgb": true}'`.

## Running the server example

To start up the server:

```sh
VLLM_RPC_TIMEOUT=100000 MESH_DEVICE=T3K python examples/server_example_tt.py
```

> **Notes:**
> - By default, the server will run with Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct. To run with other models, set `MESH_DEVICE` and `--model` as described in [Running the offline inference example](#running-the-offline-inference-example).
> - Custom TT options can be set using `--override_tt_config` as described in [Running the offline inference example](#running-the-offline-inference-example).

To send a request to the server:

```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct", "prompt": "San Francisco is a", "max_tokens": 32, "temperature": 1, "top_p": 0.9, "top_k": 10 }'
```

### Compatibility sampling mode, guided decoding, structured outputs

Sampling parameters beyond `temperature`, `top_k`, `top_p` require the compatibility sampling mode which is only available with `sample_on_device_mode=None`.
To use these, do not pass `--override_tt_config '{"sample_on_device_mode": "all"}'` even when running with `TT_LLAMA_TEXT_VER="llama3_70b_galaxy"`.

Some parameters, such as guided_decoding / strucured outputs require additionally setting `num_scheduler_steps=1`.

Be aware that both of these settings will incur performance penalties.

The compatibility sampling pathway is selected per batch when any request in the batch requires it. It can also be force-enabled for testing purposes with `--override_tt_config '{"always_compat_sampling": true}'`

### Llama-3.2 (11B and 90B) and Qwen-2.5-VL (32B and 72B) Vision models

First, start the server following the instructions above with the correct model through `--model`.

Second, generate a prompt json, e.g.,

```python
import base64
import json

# Function to encode the image
def encode_image(image_path):
    with open(image_path, "rb") as image_file:
        return base64.b64encode(image_file.read()).decode("utf-8")

# Path to your image
image_path = "pasta.jpeg"

# Getting the base64 string
base64_image = encode_image(image_path)

payload = {
    "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct",
    "messages": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": [
                {
                    "type": "text",
                    "text": "What is for dinner?"
                },
                {
                    "type": "image_url",
                    "image_url": {
                        "url": f"data:image/jpeg;base64,{base64_image}"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ],
    "max_tokens": 128,
    "temperature": 1,
    "top_p": 0.9,
    "top_k": 10
}

# Save to a JSON file
with open("server-instruct-mm-prompt.json", "w") as json_file:
    json.dump(payload, json_file, indent=4)
```

> **Notes:**
> - Qwen-2.5-VL models can also work with a real url like `"https://qianwen-res.oss-cn-beijing.aliyuncs.com/Qwen-VL/assets/demo.jpeg"` instead of `"data:image/jpeg;base64,{base64_image}"`.

Finally, send a request to the server:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" --data-binary @server-instruct-mm-prompt.json
```
